'\" t
.TH "ACTON\-DOCTOR" "1"
.nh
.ad l
.ss \n[.ss] 0
.SH "NAME"
acton\-doctor \[em] Inspect the resolved Acton project environment
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBacton doctor\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Print a diagnostic report for the current Acton environment.
.sp
The report is intended to help debug project resolution, manifest parsing,
wallet and library overlays, bundled standard\-library state, native emulator
and Tolk library metadata, logging paths, relevant environment variables, and
API reachability from the current machine.
.SH "DISPLAY OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-color\fR \fIwhen\fR
.RS 4
Control when to use colored output.
.sp
Possible values: \fBauto\fR, \fBalways\fR, \fBnever\fR
.RE
.SH "PROJECT OPTIONS"
.sp
\fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the \fBActon.toml\fR file to use for this invocation.
.sp
Use this when running the command outside the project directory or when the
manifest lives at a non\-default location.
.RE
.sp
\fB\-\-project\-root\fR \fIpath\fR
.RS 4
Path to the project root to use for configuration discovery and relative
defaults.
.sp
This conflicts with \fB\-\-manifest\-path\fR\&.
.RE
.SH "REPORT SECTIONS"
\fBacton doctor\fR prints:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'version and build metadata
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'resolved paths for the project, manifest, \fB\&.acton\fR, cache, wallets, and
libraries
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBActon.toml\fR existence and parse status
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'wallet and library overlay load status
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'bundled stdlib health and version
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'native emulator/Tolk version metadata, including the TON commit hash and date
embedded in the linked libraries
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'resolved logging directory and debug log path
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'selected environment variables such as \fBHOME\fR, \fBSHELL\fR, \fBNO_COLOR\fR, and
\fBACTON_DISABLE_AUTO_STDLIB\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBACTON_USE_PROXY\fR, which opts Acton CLI HTTP clients into \fBHTTP_PROXY\fR,
\fBHTTPS_PROXY\fR, \fBALL_PROXY\fR, and system proxy settings. Acton ignores those
proxy settings by default to avoid macOS sandbox proxy autodetection crashes.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'API reachability checks for the default TON API backends and verifier backend
config endpoint.
.RE
.SH "PATH AND OVERLAY CHECKS"
For each reported path, Acton shows whether it exists, whether it appears
writable, and when relevant which resolution source selected it.
.sp
Overlay inspection includes:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'whether local and global overlay files parse correctly
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'how many entries they contain
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'a merged entry count when both layers load successfully
.RE
.SH "STDLIB HEALTH"
The stdlib section reports whether \fB\&.acton/tolk\-stdlib\fR is:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBmissing\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBincomplete\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBhealthy\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBoutdated\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBunknown\-version\fR
.RE
.SH "API REACHABILITY"
After the local environment report, \fBacton doctor\fR probes the default remote
services Acton commonly uses:
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'TonCenter v2 and v3 for mainnet and testnet
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'TonHub v4 for mainnet and testnet
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'DTON GraphQL
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'the verifier backend configuration file
.RE
.sp
The command prints a healthy/total count and per\-endpoint status. These checks
use short timeouts and are diagnostic only: failed API probes are reported in
the output but do not by themselves make \fBacton doctor\fR exit with status \fB1\fR\&.
.sp
Set \fBDTON_API_KEY\fR to use your own DTON key. For controlled environments,
\fBACTON_DOCTOR_API_TARGETS_JSON\fR can replace the default probe list with a JSON
array of targets.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB0\fR: The diagnostic report was produced successfully.
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fB1\fR: Environment inspection failed before the report could be completed, for
example because path resolution or manifest loading failed unexpectedly.
.RE
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 1.\h'+01'Show diagnostics for the current project:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doctor
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 2.\h'+01'Inspect another project root explicitly:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton \-\-project\-root ../my\-project doctor
.fi
.RE
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04' 3.\h'+01'Capture environment details before filing a bug:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
acton doctor
.fi
.RE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help init\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fBacton help ls\fR
.RE
.sp
.RS 4
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\fIActon documentation\fR <https://ton\-blockchain.github.io/acton/docs/welcome>
.RE
